Conclusion and future work (#54)
SpecialeBajs/speciale-rapport: article/Experiment/dimensionality.tex

5 convolutions with weighted does however perform better than both of these embeddings with a small amount where $E^{(2)}$ has 0.1086 in NDCG and 5 convolutions has 0.1089 in NDCG.
This indicates that the weighted summation benefits from layer combination, as all other embedding layers perform worse than $E^{(2)}$.
Both of these datasets nodes have above 19 connections on average and therefore the amount of collaborative signals increase much faster for each node in the graph compared to Amazon-Cell-Sport.
For Amazon-Cell-Sport the recall performance increases for the nodes with a higher degree, however for Yelp2020 and Amazon-Book the performance decreases for higher node degrees.
This could be because the nodes with many connections get too much noise in Yelp2020 and Amazon-Book, but for Amazon-Cell-Sport there are many items with few connected users, and hereby it limits how much information users with many connections gain.
The best result for \textit{Combined} in Amazon-Book is 3 convolution with weighted summation.
$E^{(1)}$ and $E^{(2)}$ significantly outperform the other embedding layers.

> For Yelp2020 the 5 convolution weighted summation performs best, while the $E^{(1)}$, $E^{(2)}$ and $E^{(3)}$ embedding layer are the best individual performing layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Yelp2020 the 5 convolutions weighted summation performs best, while $E^{(1)}$, $E^{(2)}$ and $E^{(3)}$ are the best individual performing layers.
```

For Amazon-Cell-Sport $E^{(2)}$, $E^{(3)}$, $E^{(4)}$ and $E^{(5)}$ outperform the 5 convolution average.
\\
As no direct link between the number of connections a user has and its performance was found, it could be interesting to look further into the number of implicit connections a user has once the convolutions have been performed.
We expected to see a larger difference between the number of connections, and how well each layer would perform.

> But nodes with over 100 connections often performs similarly to nodes with less connections based on the embedding that performed best.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But if we look at which embeddings performed best we see that nodes with over 100 connections often perform similarly to nodes with a lower number of connections.
```

\begin{table*}[]
    \begin{tabular}{|l|l|l|l||l|l|l||l|l|l|}
    \hline
              & \multicolumn{3}{l||}{Amazon-Cell-Sport}     & \multicolumn{3}{l||}{Yelp2020}             & \multicolumn{3}{l|}{Amazon-Book}           \\ \hline
              & 5 con   & ALC              & BLC           & 5 con           & ALC     & BLC           & 5 con   & ALC              & BLC           \\ \hline
    NDCG@50   & 0.03285 & \textbf{0.03515} & {\ul 0.03414} & \textbf{0.1089} & 0.10792 & {\ul 0.10843} & 0.04518 & \textbf{0.04688} & {\ul 0.04610} \\ \hline
    Recall@50 & 0.06451 & \textbf{0.07117} & {\ul 0.06621} & \textbf{0.2177} & 0.21553 & {\ul 0.21725} & 0.07874 & \textbf{0.08120} & {\ul 0.07974} \\ \hline
    \end{tabular}
    \caption{ALC and BLC based on node degrees.}
    \label{tab:node-degree-alc-blc}
\end{table*}
\autoref{tab:node-degree-alc-blc} shows the combined results from ALC and BLC based on node degrees.
The results within the splits can be seen in Appendix \autoref{app:adjusted-layer-combi} on \autoref{tab:ALC-degree-based-ndcg} and \autoref{tab:BLC-degree-based-ndcg}.
\paragraph{ALC}

> \autoref{tab:ALC-degree-based-ndcg} and \autoref{tab:ALC-degree-based-recall} shows the results for node degree dependent ALC for NDCG and Recall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\autoref{tab:ALC-degree-based-ndcg} and \autoref{tab:ALC-degree-based-recall} show the results for node degree dependent ALC in NDCG and Recall respectively. 
```

> As can be observed Yelp2020 decrease 1 \% in performance in NDCG from 0.1089 to 0.10792 and decreases 1 \% in recall from 0.2177 to 0.21553.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As can be observed Yelp2020 has a 1 \% decrease in NDCG from 0.1089 to 0.10792 and a 1 \% decreases in recall from 0.2177 to 0.21553.
```

> Amazon-Book increases in performance with 3.62 \% in NDCG from 0.04518 to 0.04688 and 3.02 \% in recall 0.07874 to 0.08120.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amazon-Book has a 3.62 \% increase in NDCG from 0.04518 to 0.04688 and 3.02 \% in recall from 0.07874 to 0.08120.
```

> Amazon-Cell-Sport increases 6.5 \% in NDCG from 0.03285 to 0.03515 and 10 \% in recall from 0.06451 to 0.07117.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amazon-Cell-Sport has a 6.5 \% increase in NDCG from 0.03285 to 0.03515 and 10 \% in recall from 0.06451 to 0.07117.
```

\paragraph{BLC}

> \autoref{tab:BLC-degree-based-ndcg} and \autoref{tab:BLC-degree-based-recall} shows the results for node degree dependent BLC for NDCG and Recall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\autoref{tab:BLC-degree-based-ndcg} and \autoref{tab:BLC-degree-based-recall} shows the results for node degree dependent BLC in NDCG and Recall respectively.
```

> Yelp2020 also decreases in NDCG by 0.5 \% from 0.1089 to 0.10843 and decreases in recall by 0.2 \% from 0.2177 to 0.21725.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yelp2020 has a 0.5 \%  decrease in NDCG from 0.1089 to 0.10843 and a 0.2 \% decrease in recall from 0.2177 to 0.21725.
```

> Amazon-Book increases 2 \% in NDCG from 0.04518 to 0.04610 and increases recall by 1.25 \% from 0.07874 to 0.07974. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amazon-Book has a 2 \% increase in NDCG from 0.04518 to 0.04610 and a 1.25 \% increase in recall from 0.07874 to 0.07974. 
```

> Amazon-Cell-Sport increases 3.7 \% from 0.03285 to 0.03414 in NDCG and increases 2.5 \% 0.06451 to 0.06621.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amazon-Cell-Sport has a 3.7 \% increase in NDCG from 0.03285 to 0.03414 and 2.5 \% in recall from 0.06451 to 0.06621.
```

\paragraph{Conclusion}

> Looking at the results LightGCN generally improves, except for Yelp2020 which has a small decrease in performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking at these results we see that ALC and BLC generally improve the performance of LightGCN, except for on Yelp2020 which has a small decrease in performance.
```

> ALC seems to show better improvements than BLC for Amazon-Book and Amazon-Cell-Sport, but Yelp2020 also decreases more in performance with ALC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ALC seems to show larger improvements than BLC for Amazon-Book and Amazon-Cell-Sport, but also has a larger decrease in performance for Yelp2020 compared to BLC.
```

Compared to the baseline experiment (\autoref{tab:baselines-ndcg}) it can be observed, that doing layer combination on Amazon-Cell-Sport and Yelp2020 without considering node degrees shows a larger increase in performance than utilizing node degrees.
A reason for this could be that doing different layer combinations for different users and items will disturb the collaborative signal.
For example user A with 5 interactions could be similar to user B with 20 interactions and hereby user B's interactions could be good candidates for recommendations.
However, as two different layer combinations are used for user A and user B, the embeddings will change more than it otherwise would have.

> This does not seem to be the case for Amazon-Book, as this improves more than when doing layer combination not based on node degree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This does not seem to be the case for Amazon-Book, as we see a large improvement when we take node degrees into account when we calculate the different layer effects using ALC or BLC.
```

This could be because Amazon-Book is a substantial larger dataset. 

> It could be interesting to run this experiment on a dataset that is larger than Amazon-Book to see the effect of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It could be interesting to run this experiment on a dataset that is larger than Amazon-Book to see what effect this would have.
```
